The Godfather is an American crime movie; an absolute classic in the history of Hollywood.
Welcome to the Cosa Nostra.
In 1945, at his
daughter Connie's wedding, Vito Corleone hears
requests in his role as the Godfather, the
Don of a New York crime family.
Vito's youngest son, Michael, who was a Marine
during World War II, introduces his girlfriend,
Kay Adams, to his family at the reception.
Johnny Fontane, a famous singer and Vito's
godson, seeks Vito's help in securing a movie
role; Vito dispatches his consigliere, Tom
Hagen, to Los Angeles to persuade the obnoxious
studio head, Jack Woltz, to give Johnny the
part.
Woltz refuses until he wakes up in bed with
the severed head of his prized stallion.
Shortly before Christmas, drug baron Virgil
"The Turk" Sollozzo, backed by the Tattaglia
crime family, asks Vito for investment in
his narcotics business and protection through
his political connections.
Wary of involvement in a dangerous new trade
that risks alienating political insiders,
Vito declines.
Suspicious, Vito sends his enforcer, Luca
Brasi, to spy on them.
However, a Tattaglia button man garrotes Brasi
during Brasi's first meeting with Bruno Tattaglia
and Sollozzo.
Later Sollozzo has Vito gunned down in the
street, then kidnaps Hagen.
With Corleone first-born Sonny in command,
Sollozzo pressures Hagen to persuade Sonny
to accept Sollozzo's deal, then releases him.
The family receives fish wrapped in Brasi's
bullet-proof vest, indicating that Luca "sleeps
with the fishes."
Vito survives, and at the hospital Michael
thwarts another attempt on his father; Michael's
jaw is broken by NYPD Captain Marc McCluskey,
Sollozzo's bodyguard.
Sonny retaliates with a hit on Bruno Tattaglia.
Michael plots to murder Sollozzo and McCluskey:
on the pretext of settling the dispute, Michael
agrees to meet them in a Bronx restaurant.
There, retrieving a planted handgun, he kills
both men.
Despite a clampdown by the authorities, the
Five Families erupt in open warfare and Vito's
sons fear for their safety.
Michael takes refuge in Sicily and Fredo is
sheltered by Moe Greene in Las Vegas.
Sonny attacks his brother-in-law Carlo on
the street for abusing his sister and threatens
to kill him if it happens again.
When it does, Sonny speeds to their home,
but is ambushed at a highway toll booth and
riddled with submachine gun fire.
While in Sicily, Michael meets and marries
Apollonia Vitelli, but a car bomb intended
for him takes her life.
Devastated by Sonny's death, Vito moves to
end the feuds.
Realizing that the Tattaglias are controlled
by the now-dominant Don Emilio Barzini, Vito
assures the Five Families that he will withdraw
his opposition to their heroin business and
forgo avenging his son's murder.
His safety guaranteed, Michael returns home
to enter the family business and marry Kay,
promising her that the business will be legitimate
within five years.
Kay gives birth to two children by the early
1950s, and with his father at the end of his
career and his brother too weak, Michael takes
the family reins.
He insists Hagen relocate to Las Vegas and
relinquish his role to Vito because Tom is
not a "wartime consigliere"; Vito agrees Tom
should "have no part in what will happen"
in the coming battles with rival families.
Michael travels to Las Vegas to buy out Greene's
stake in the family's casinos.
Michael is dismayed to see that Fredo has
fallen under Greene's sway.
In 1955, Vito suffers a fatal heart attack.
At the funeral, Tessio, a Corleone capo, asks
Michael to meet with Don Barzini, signalling
the betrayal that Vito had forewarned.
The meeting is set for the same day as the
christening of Connie's baby.
While Michael stands at the altar as the child's
godfather, Corleone assassins murder the other
New York dons and Moe Greene.
Tessio is executed for his treachery and Michael
extracts Carlo's confession to his complicity
in setting up Sonny's murder for Barzini.
A Corleone capo, Clemenza, garrotes Carlo
with a wire.
Connie accuses Michael of the murder, telling
Kay that Michael ordered all the killings.
Kay is relieved when Michael finally denies
it, but, when the capos arrive, they address
her husband as Don Corleone, and she watches
as they close the door on her.